heroes

black widow: utilizes bystanders for bonuses and card drawing
	ultimate: kill a villain or hit the mastermind if they captured a bystander

nick fury: provides bonus attack power for tech and avenger type cards
	ultimate: kill a villain or hit the mastermind if they have less attack power than the number of dead avengers

deadpool: an anti-hero with an odd choice of abilities that may help or hurt the team
	ultimate: take a wound.  each player hands another player a card in their hand

gambit: has many abilities for hand/deck interchange for the player and their teammates.
	ultimate: Reveal the top card in your deck, gain attack power equal to its cost.

iron man: has bonus card drawing and attack bonus abilities.
	ultimate: draw two cards or 4 cards if you have a tech hero.

wolverine: has bonus card drawing and can discard wounds for bonus attack power.
	ultimate: draw three cards. gain attack power for each extra card you've drawn if you have an instinct card.

emma frost: an anti-hero with card drawing bonuses and attack bonuses, at the cost of summoning villains.
	ultimate: get additional recruitment points if you defeat a villain or hit the mastermind that turn

hawkeye: card drawing bonuses for player and team members, with attack bonuses for avengers
	ultimate: rescue 3 bystanders if you kill a villain or hit the mastermind

hulk: significant attack power bonuses using wounds and strength cards.  team members suffer collateral damange wounds.
	ultimate: 5 attack plus another 5 if a strength hero is played.

thor: good for building recruitment points and rewarding those points with attack bonuses.
	ultimate: convert all recruitment points to attack power that turn.

storm: can move villains to different city spaces, and nerf villains depending on their location.
	ultimate: nerf the villain on the bridge.  also nerf the mastermind if you have a ranged card.

rogue: can copy abilities from other cards, including ultimates.
	ultimate: teammates discard one card from their decks.  player plays all of those cards.

spider-man: good early game hero with low cost recruitment and bonus card drawing abilities
	ultimate: reveal 3 top cards of your deck.  if their cost is low, put them in your hand.

captain america: grants bonuses for card type variety.
	ultimate: bonus attack power for each other avenger you played this turn.

cyclops: strong attack power requiring discards. some abilties cancel the discard effect.
	ultimate: bonus attack power for each other x-man you played this turn.


masterminds:

Red Skull: 
	Attack power: 7 (low)
	Always leads HYDRA, a variety of villains that can quickly build up in numbers.
	Master Strike: Each player KOs a Hero from their hand.

Magneto: 
	Attack power: 8 (medium-low)
	Always leads Brotherhood, a variety of villains with powerful, situational abilities. (hint: You need an X-man to defeat the Blob)
	Master Strike: reveal an x-man hero in your hand or else discard down to four cards.

Dr. Doom:
	Attack power: 9 (medium-high)
	Always leads Doombot Legion, an army of doombots. when they are attacked, you must discard one of two cards on the top of your deck.
	Master Strike: if you have 6 cards in your hand, reveal a tech hero or else put two cards on the top of your deck.

Loki:
	Attack power: 10 (high)
	Always leads Enemies of Asgard, a variety of powerful villains that are best fought with ranged heroes.
	Master Strike: Reveal a strength hero or else gain a wound.

other Villain groups: 

Skrulls: Villains who capture heroes from HQ and convert their recruitment cost to attack power. These heroes can be rescued when the villains are fought.

Spider-Foes: Trickster villains with situational abilities. (hint: you need covert heroes to defeat Venom)

Masters of Evil: Strong villains that, if attacked strategicly, provide bonuses to players.

Hand Ninjas: An army of ninja villains that provide bonus recruitment points when fought.

Radiation: Villains with a balance of abilties and bonuses when fought.  They mostly just look ugly.

Sentinels: An army of sentinels. When you fight them, you must KO a hero in your hand.















